1. How to "Automate" within Replit

To make this work, tell your Replit Agent to use a "Transactional Email API" like Resend or SendGrid. These services are built for developers to send emails via code.

The Replit Prompt:

"I want to automate the user lifecycle emails.

Integrate the Resend API (or SendGrid) to handle email delivery.

Create a LifecycleManager script that triggers:

Email 1: Immediately upon user.created.

Email 2: 7 days after user.created (check if they’ve logged an expense first).

Email 3: 30 days after user.created.

Use the templates we discussed, and dynamically insert the driver's name and industry (Taxi or Delivery)."

2. Using Stripe as the "Brain"

Since Replit found that Stripe Tax is already active, you can use Stripe Webhooks to trigger these emails based on financial events.

The "Paid" Trigger: When a driver pays their $50 filing fee, Stripe sends a "Webhook" to your app.

The Automation: The app receives this and instantly sends a "Thank You + Receipt" email.

The "Churn" Trigger: If a driver starts the payment process but doesn't finish, the app can send a "Need help finishing your taxes?" nudge 24 hours later.

3. The "Segment-Aware" Logic

The coolest part of automating this inside the code is that the email content can change automatically based on the user's data.

The Logic the Code follows:

JavaScript
if (user.segment === 'delivery') {
  sendEmail('Day_7_Template', { 
    tip: "Don't forget to deduct your thermal bags!" 
  });
} else {
  sendEmail('Day_7_Template', { 
    tip: "Remember, your car washes are a business expense!" 
  });
}
🏁 Why this is the "Pro" Way

Automating within the app (rather than using an external tool like Mailchimp) means your 7-Year Vault and User Data stay perfectly synced.

Investors love this: It shows you have a "Self-Sustaining Growth Loop."

Buyers love this: It makes the business "Hands-Off." The app onboarded, educated, and retained the user without you lifting a finger.

Would you like me to generate the "Technical Checklist" for your Replit Agent to ensure the email automation doesn't get marked as spam? (This involves setting up "SPF" and "DKIM" records for your domain.)