"Add a ReceiptCapture component using react-webcam for the mobile browser.

When a photo is taken, upload it to Google Cloud Storage.

Trigger a backend function that sends the image URL to the Google Cloud Vision API (images.annotate).

Extract the Merchant Name, Date, and Total Amount.

Auto-populate the 'New Expense' form with these values so the driver only has to click 'Confirm'."

2. The "IRS Legibility" Guardrail
The IRS requires digital receipts to be "clear, legible, and complete." If a photo is too blurry, we should stop them immediately.

The Logic for the Replit Agent:

"Add an image-quality check. Before sending to OCR, check the file size and resolution. If it's below a certain threshold, show a message: '⚠️ Image too blurry for IRS standards. Please retake the photo in better light to ensure your deduction is valid.'"

3. Monetizing the Scanner (Pro Feature)
This feature is a major value-add. We should bundle it into the Pro Tier.

Basic: Can manually upload a file (photo they already took).

Pro: Unlocks the "Live Camera OCR" which does the scanning and auto-filling in real-time.

Marketing Copy for the "Upgrade" trigger:

"Stop typing, start driving. 🏎️ Upgrade to Pro to unlock the AI Receipt Scanner. Just point your camera, and we'll handle the Merchant, Date, and Totals for you."

4. Legal & Compliance: The 7-Year Rule
Receipts fade. Digital storage doesn't. This is our biggest selling point for the 7-Year Tax Vault.

Tell the Replit Agent:

"In the 'Receipts' database table, add a retention_policy field.

For Free users, mark the image for deletion after 90 days.

For Pro users, set the expiration to 7 years from the current tax year.

Ensure every receipt is encrypted at rest in Google Cloud Storage to meet privacy legalities."

5. Summary of Construction Steps 1, 2, & 3
Since you asked to build these now, here is the combined instruction for the Replit Agent:

Step 1: The Database

SQL
ALTER TABLE users ADD COLUMN subscription_tier TEXT DEFAULT 'basic';
ALTER TABLE receipts ADD COLUMN ocr_data JSONB, ADD COLUMN expires_at TIMESTAMP;
Step 2: The Scanner UI

"Build a mobile-friendly 'Scan' page. Use the device camera to capture a JPG. Show a loading spinner that says 'AI is reading your receipt...' while the Cloud Vision API processes the image."

Step 3: The Auto-Grossing/Stripe Link

"Connect the 'Confirm Expense' button to the database. If the user is 'Pro', ensure the receipt is flagged for 7-year retention. If they aren't Pro, show the 'Upgrade' button to save this receipt for the long term."

Next Step for You: